# markowitz_dash
## Minimzation Step
This app uses streamlit and python libraries including scipy by utilizing the **minimize** function - Sequential Least Squares Programming Algorithim (SLSQP) to get an optimal portfolio weights. SLSQP essentially works to minimize a function, to make this work, we made the sharpe ratio negative as we were trying to optimize it, then at the end multiplied it by -1. We also ran 10,000 portfolio simulations and plotted them on a chart, the highest sharpe portfolios are provided as outputs which generally approximate the SLSQP output, and represent the dots colored in yellow on the chart.
## Computing Standard Deviation of the Portfolio
The program works by utilizing matrix/vector multiplication. We first create a covariance matrix to find each assets covariance with one another. We create a vector of random weights for each individual asset and multiply the two, the result is a vector of weighted covariances for each ticker with respect to each other ticker in the portfolio. We then multiply this vector by another vector of randomized weights (again) to test which portfolio comprised of each ticker would give us the lowest overall covariance value. This is seen in the code when we do the **np.dot** function twice. We then take the square root of this value to give us the standard deviation of the portfolio.
## Computing Expected Returns
It is worth noting that this is not the only value we consider for our output. We also consider historical returns when computing sharpe, and so while we are looking for low covariance between assets, we are also looking for high historical returns, which in our code is considered expected return. This value takes the log return of individual tickers, we do this to consider the impact on continuous compounding, which is what stock portfolios experience. the **np.log()** function from numpy takes the natural log of the data pulled from Yahoo Finance. We also consider dividends and distributions (labeled as dividends by yfinance) from stock and bond ETFs, so this program does work when calculating optimal fixed income allocations if you chose to use a bond ETF as one of the tickers.

If you have any additional questions please feel free to reach out to me at nnicolas@umich.edu. Thank You! We hope you enjoy the program!

To access the interactive program (web app) please click on the following link: [portfolioptimization.streamlit.app](https://portfolioptimization.streamlit.app/) to view the app.

Lastly, much of the information provided by this program utilizes historical data, like previous volatility (historical variances & covariances) as well as historical returns to output the highest performing portfolios. **Past performance is no guarantee of future results.** This program is for educational purposes only, and does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell securities. Before buying or selling any securities you should do your own research. Investing includes risks, including loss of principal.

## Please note:
To optimize resources, Streamlit places apps on its Streamlit Community Cloud service in sleep mode while not in use. If you would like to view the app, please click to wake the app up.
